---
layout: post
title:  "CocoaPods 0.27 and improved installation UX"
date:   2013-10-24
author: eloy
categories: cocoapods releases
---

TL;DR: _Compilation as part of the CocoaPods gem install process is dead. Long
live precompiled gems!_

The CocoaPods gems will now be installable _without_
the need for installing the Xcode Command Line Tools and fixing the Ruby
headers location on OS X (Mountain Lion _and_ Mavericks).

<!-- more -->


## History on the underlying problem

While CocoaPods and most of its dependencies are implemented in pure Ruby there
is one dependency that requires a bit of C code, or –in Ruby parlance– a
‘Ruby C extension’.

Typically, a ‘Ruby C extension’ will be compiled on the user’s machine during
installation of the gem it belongs to. While this leads to better portability,
it _does_ add the requirement of having a compiler and the Ruby C headers, both
of which are **not** available on OS X by default.

_To be fair, Mavericks does come with the Command Line Tools pre-installed, and
thus with a compiler, but it does not place the Ruby C headers in the right
location and [manual intervention](https://gist.github.com/goshakkk/5763489) is
required._

The dependency with a C extension that we have is
[Xcodeproj](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Xcodeproj), the library that powers
our Xcode project parsing and generation. It does this by utilising the OS X
Core Foundation API called [`CFPropertyList`](http://bit.ly/1a9irJT). This API
allows us to read _any type_ of PList, including the deprecated ASCII format
that Xcode still uses, and generate a PList readable by Xcode. While there were
–at the time of implementing Xcodeproj– some pure Ruby libraries to read or
write one of the PList formats, there was none that implemented them all to our
satisfaction. Finally, as a Xcode project is an undocumented format, we did not
want to spend a lot of time on implementing and possibly having to replace it
in the future if Apple would ever decide to change the format.


## UX Perspective

_You can skip to ‘The solution’ if you’re not interested in a discussion on the
ramifications of how to get things done with Ruby and the status quo._

These sorts of issues make the out-of-the-box UX for pure Ruby **users** really
bad. CocoaPods is such a tool that has many more users whom are **not** Ruby
developers. I.e. Ruby is somewhat of an implementation detail. This
understandably leads to frustrated users.

To add insult to injury, such users –in their willingness to give CocoaPods a
second chance– will usually google for a solution leading them into, what I
call, the ‘developer bubble’ of Ruby developers.

In this ‘developer bubble’ there is **no sane** Ruby environment _unless_ you
_at least_ build your own Ruby, but _preferably_ including one or more of the
following tools: [homebrew](http://brew.sh), [RVM](https://rvm.io),
[rbenv](http://rbenv.org), and many other alternatives.

Here’s [a recent blog post](http://bit.ly/14B38md) that gives this illusion and
here’s a typical tweet that illustrates how this suggestion leads a pure Ruby
user astray:

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p>Soooo... I need to install homebrew for rvm, ruby-install, and rbenv, and then will be able to `gem install cocoa pods`? <a href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23shitshow&amp;src=hash">#shitshow</a></p>&mdash; ¡ɜɿoɾɪɹℲ (@frijole) <a href="https://twitter.com/frijole/statuses/392339577232703488">October 21, 2013</a></blockquote>
<script async src="//platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

Shitshow indeed.

The sad part is, it isn’t even necessary. Not if you _are_ a Ruby developer,
let alone if you are a pure user. We in the Ruby community need to fix this
perspective and look at the mess we’ve gotten ourselves in _from the outside_
and better frame our suggestions in context. But I digress, for now.


## Solution

The solution is simple and, in our case, two-fold:

1. **Advice users to use the Ruby version that comes pre-installed on OS X.**

   The only remaining –but very valid– concern is that, by default, you will
   have to use `sudo` when installing gems. (This is only an issue for the
   duration of the gem installation, though.)

   If you do **not** want to grant RubyGems admin privileges for this process,
   you can tell RubyGems to install into your user directory by passing either
   the `--user-install` flag to `gem install` or by configuring the RubyGems
   environment. The latter is in our opinion the best solution. To do this,
   edit the `.profile` file in your home directory and add or amend it to
   include these lines:

   ```sh
   export GEM_HOME=$HOME/gems
   export PATH=$GEM_HOME/bin:$PATH
   ```

   Note that if you choose to use the `--user-install` option, you will still
   have to configure your `.profile` file to set the `PATH` or use the command
   prepended by the full path. You can find out where a gem is installed with
   `gem which cocoapods`. E.g.

   ```sh
   $ gem install cocoapods --user-install
   $ gem which cocoapods
   /Users/eloy/.gem/ruby/1.8/gems/cocoapods-0.27.0/lib/cocoapods.rb
   $ /Users/eloy/.gem/ruby/1.8/gems/cocoapods-0.27.0/bin/pod install
   ```

2. **Provide prebuilt binaries for the Ruby versions that come with OS X.**

   In our case this means a prebuilt version of the C extension for Ruby 1.8.7
   on OS X 10.8.x and for Ruby 2.0.0 on OS X 10.9.x. On these versions, the
   user does **not** have to install the Xcode Command Line Tools, nor fix the
   Ruby C headers.

   If you are using a custom Ruby version, however, regardless of it being the
   exact same Ruby version for which we provide prebuilt binaries, you _will_
   have to compile the C extension and thus need the Xcode Command Line Tools.

   This all works transperantly, so you don’t need to think about it much. If,
   however, for whatever reason you wish to control this then you can use the
   `XCODEPROJ_BUILD` environment variable. Set it to `1` to _always_ compile or
   to `0` to _never_ compile.


## Notes for RubyGems developers

Over the course of figuring out the best way to cater to our users, I came to
the following insights:

* RubyGems automagically installs a CPU-architecture + OS-version specific
  version of your gem if one exists with the following filename:
  `[NAME]-[VERSION]-[ARCH]-[PLATFORM].gem`.
  E.g.: `xcodeproj-0.14.0-universal.x86_64-darwin13.gem`.

  While this allows you to prebuilt for specific architectures and OS versions,
  it doesn’t allow for control over which Ruby version you have. This means it
  is not an option for us, as we have to check if the Ruby you are using is in
  fact a pre-installed OS X Ruby version. (In case there _is_ a modifier to
  control the Ruby version, please let me know and I will update this section.)

* Because we have to check if the RUby version you are using is a version that
  comes pre-installed with OS X, we have to perform these checks at the time
  that the gem is being installed. Typically, RubyGems authors ‘abuse’ their
  `extconf.rb` to generate a no-op `Makefile` in the case that no compilation
  is required. This, however, means that the user will still need to have
  `make` installed, which is not the case on OS X 10.8.

  Luckily [Eric Hodel](https://twitter.com/drbrain), one of the RubyGems
  maintainers, pointed me to an undocumented feature. Instead of specifying the
  extension like so:

  ```ruby
  s.extensions = "ext/xcodeproj/extconf.rb"
  ```

  You can alternatively specify a `Rakefile`, in which case RubyGems will leave
  running `make`, or whatever you need to run, up to your rake task:

  ```ruby
  s.extensions = "ext/xcodeproj/Rakefile"
  ```

* The [rake-compiler](https://github.com/luislavena/rake-compiler) library is
  very helpful in prebuilding extensions and understanding how RubyGems handles
  these gem filename formats. However, if you are going to target very specific
  Ruby versions which are the same regardless of user/machine –like we do– then
  it’s much simpler to just vendor the result of your `extconf.rb` (i.e. the
  `Makefile` and possibly `extconf.h`) and use those to build your extensions.
  Here’s [our final solution](http://bit.ly/1a9tp25).
