---
layout: post
title:  "CocoaPods 0.39 - tvOS and Dynamic Vendored Frameworks"
author: samuel
categories: cocoapods releases
---

TL;DR: _CocoaPods 0.39_ has been released, with support for tvOS pods and dynamic vendored frameworks.

<!-- more -->

### Dynamic Vendored Frameworks

CocoaPods 0.39 has been released, with the biggest change being support for dynamic vendored frameworks.
This will allow closed-source pods to be provided as dynamic frameworks, meaning no more errors when they are transitive dependencies of multiple other pods.
This will also allow closed-source pods to not only be used simultaneously with Swift pods, but it means closed-source pods can even be written in Swift.


### tvOS

The update allows you to use pods with tvOS.
As a pod author, you may need to specify the [deployment target
for tvOS](https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podspec.html#tvos) in your podspec, as seen below:

```ruby
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  # …
  s.tvos.deployment_target = '9.0'
end
```

This means that, in practice, not all existing pods will be compatible with tvOS immediately.
Any pod that can support tvOS needs to explicitly add support by adding `s.tvos.deployment_target`, since it is an entirely new platform.

### Swift Standard Library Copying

When building Swift pods with Xcode 7 or later, the Swift standard library runtime will no longer manually be copied.
For projects with a large number of Swift pods, this can lead to a drastic speed-up in build times.

### Private Linting

All commands that perform linting (`pod spec lint`, `pod lib lint`, and
`pod repo push`) now can take a `--private` flag.
Using this flag will disable warnings that are only relevant to public pods,
such as URL reachability.

Along with these enhancements, 0.39 features dozens of bug fixes.

## Updating

To install the last release of CocoaPods you can run:

```bash
$ [sudo] gem install cocoapods
```

Until version 1.0 we strongly encourage you to keep CocoaPods up-to-date.

For all the details, don’t miss the
[Changelog](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods/releases/tag/0.39.0)!
