---
layout: post
title:  "CocoaPods 1.8 Beta is Here!"
author: dnkoutso
categories: cocoapods releases
---

_CocoaPods 1.8_ switches the CDN as the default spec repo source and comes with a few enhancements!

<!-- more -->

This is an exciting release as the [master specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs) is no longer required to be cloned to start using CocoaPods!

### CDN as Default

CDN support was first introduced in the [1.7 release](http://blog.cocoapods.org/CocoaPods-1.7.0-beta/) and aims to speed up initial setup and dependency analysis dramatically. With 1.8, CocoaPods no longer requires cloning the now huge [master specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs) in order to function.

You may safely delete the [master specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs) with the following steps:

First, edit your `Podfile` to set the CDN as the primary source:

```diff
- source 'https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs.git'
+ source 'https://cdn.cocoapods.org/'
```

Afterwards, run the following command to remove the [master specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs):

```
pod repo remove master
```

If you wish to continue using the `git` based source there is no action to be taken and CocoaPods should continue working as usual.

Upon installing CocoaPods for the first time, the `git` based [master specs repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs) will _no longer_ be cloned and users may start using CocoaPods almost instantly. Below you can find a video demonstration of integrating a project with CocoaPods 1.8:

*VIDEO*

For more information regarding CDN, please read our previous blog post [here](http://blog.cocoapods.org/CocoaPods-1.7.2/)!

### `info_plist` Podspec DSL

TODO

### `project_name` Podfile DSL

CocoaPods 1.7 introduced the [`generate_multiple_pod_projects`](https://guides.cocoapods.org/syntax/podfile.html#install_bang) option that installs each pod into a different Xcode project. CocoaPods 1.8 expands further by adding the `project_name` DSL that allows pod consumers to specify the project name to integrate a given pod.

This opens up plenty of new possibilities for consumers to _group_ certain pods together that make sense logically. Consider the following example:

```ruby
install! 'cocoapods', :generate_multiple_pod_projects => true

target 'MyApp' do
  use_frameworks!

  pod 'Moya', :project_name => 'Networking'
  pod 'Alamofire', :project_name => 'Networking'
  pod 'Result', :project_name => 'Networking'

  target 'MyAppTests' do
    inherit! :search_paths
    pod 'OCMock', :project_name => 'Testing'
  end
end
```

Will produce the following result:

<center>
{% breaking_image /assets/blog_img/CocoaPods-1.8.0/project_name.png %}
</center>

It is up to the consumers to choose their own grouping and provide helper methods in their `Podfile` that automatically apply the project name to use. For example, another grouping idea is to group pods by their platform such as `iOS` or `macOS`.

**Note**: The `project_name` option currently requires the `generate_multiple_pod_projects` installation option to _also_ be enabled in order for it to function. Incremental installation has also been updated to take into consideration the project name used for each pod and will continue to work as expected.

### Test Spec Enhancements

Test specs have become an integral part of CocoaPods and a couple new features have been added.

#### UI Test Bundle Support

Support for "UI Test Bundles" is now possible and you may now specify the `test_type` to use for a given `test_spec`. The default will be `:unit` which would create a unit test bundle. Consider the following example of our favorite pod `CannonPodder`:

```ruby
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  s.name         = 'CannonPodder'
  s.version      = '1.0.0'
  
  # ...rest of attributes here

  s.test_spec 'UITests' do |test_spec|
    test_spec.requires_app_host = true
    test_spec.test_type = :ui
    test_spec.source_files = 'UITests/**/*.swift'
  end
end
```

This will successfully integrate a `CannonPodder-UI-UITests` UI test bundle upon installation and will automatically create an app host to be used for it.

**Note**: UI test bundles _require_ an app host in order to function, therefore you must always specify `requires_app_host` should you choose to integrate a test spec as a UI test bundle.

#### Customizable App Host

For most cases, a generated app host for your test spec should be sufficient to execute your tests within it. However, there are cases in which pod authors may want to further customize the app host used for a `test_spec`.

For example, pod authors may want to specify additional dependencies for their app host or resource bundles to use during testing. App specs are an excellent candidate for this since they provide most of the scaffolding and with 1.8 it is now possible to set an `app_spec` as the app host for a `test_spec` via the `app_host_name` DSL.

Here's an example:

```ruby
Pod::Spec.new do |s|
  s.name         = 'CannonPodder'
  s.version      = '1.0.0'
  
  # ...rest of attributes here

  s.app_spec 'DemoApp' do |app_spec|
    app_spec.source_files = 'DemoApp/**/*.swift'
    # Dependency used only by this app spec.
    app_spec.dependency 'Alamofire'
  end

  s.test_spec 'Tests' do |test_spec|
    test_spec.requires_app_host = true
    # Use 'DemoApp' as the app host.
    test_spec.app_host_name = 'CannonPodder/DemoApp'

    # ...rest of attributes here

    # This is required since 'DemoApp' is specified as the app host.
    test_spec.dependency 'CannonPodder/DemoApp'
  end
end
```

Will produce the following result:

<center>
{% breaking_image /assets/blog_img/CocoaPods-1.8.0/app_host_name.png %}
</center>

This powerful new feature opens up new possibilities for pod authors who want much more granular control for the app host used for their test specs.

### What's Next?

CocoaPods 1.8 is a _very_ exciting release, and we're very happy for you to try it out, and recommend you upgrade:

```sh
$ gem install cocoapods --pre
```

For future versions, we continue to explore new ways to allow pod authors and pod consumers to configure integrating pods into their project, for example by specifying individual package or linkage settings. We have published a [proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1lr2mHkwhNha5_0Wfa_pYL51MAxoro0LBxx_DUzuSu0Y/edit) that we are currently exploring and we welcome your comments!
 
As always, we would like to thank all of our contributors for making this release a reality!

Checkout the [changelog](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods/releases/tag/1.8.0.beta.1) to get the full list of changes.

🚀
