---
layout: post
title:  "CocoaPods 1.7.2 - Master Repo CDN is Finalized!"
author: igormaka
categories: cocoapods releases
---

_CocoaPods 1.7.2_ brings with it the final version of CDN support for the [master spec repo](https://github.com/CocoaPods/Specs). 

<!-- more -->

It's been a tale of ridiculous scale, unintended consequences and free open-source plans.  
The CDN is located at https://cdn.cocoapods.org/ and is still considered experimental.   
A future release will make it the default spec source.

### Scaling when free and open source

CocoaPods is a free, open-source project. As such, it depends on the good graces and sponsorships of multiple tech companies. The initial decision was to store the specs in a git repo, a common practice for a free, open-source project for storing such metadata. 

The first hurdles of scale were encountered in 2016, when traffic to the master spec repo has caused GitHub to [rate-limit all operations]({% post_url 2016-05-04-Master-Spec-Repo-Rate-Limiting-Post-Mortem %}).  
A [comment from GitHub](https://github.com/CocoaPods/CocoaPods/issues/4989#issuecomment-193772935) at the time stated that this repo alone was using 5 whole server CPUs and consuming terabytes upon terabytes of bandwidth.

The crisis was averted by [sharding the repo]({% post_url 2016-10-28-Sharding %}) to improve algorithmic performance and by limiting all first-time clones to being shallow. 

This has solved GitHub's problem, but CocoaPods' users still had to deal with unsatisfactory performance.

### Git as a database

Git was invented at a time when "slow network" and "no backups" were legitimate design concerns. Running endless builds as part of continuous integration wasn't commonplace. CDN wasn't so commonly available.

There are many stories of git repos hitting the hard envelope of git's design constraints. [Microsoft's Windows repo](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/bharry/the-largest-git-repo-on-the-planet/) is one example. CocoaPods is another.

At the time of writing, the spec repo had:

* almost 400k commits - half of the Linux Kernel repo!
* over 400k directories
* over 300k spec files

These numbers have caused the repo to take minutes to clone, long times to update and have wasted uncountable CI time. It has also proven to be resistant to tarballing, as this sort of directory structure hits a bottleneck in `tar` as well. 

### Directory Listing Denied

It was obvious to many that the spec repo should be put behind a CDN, but there were several constraints:

1. It had to be a free CDN, as the project is free and open-source.
2. It had to allow some way of obtaining directory listings, for retrieving versions of pods.
3. It had to auto-update from GitHub as the source of truth.

The first implementation was a shell script, polling GitHub and piping `find` into `ls` into index files. This ran on a machine that was not open or free and therefore could not be the true soultion.  
Nevertheless, this auto-updated repo was put behind a [jsDelivr CDN](https://www.jsdelivr.com) and the client interfacing with it was released in [1.7.0]({% post_url 2019-02-22-CocoaPods-1.7.0-beta %}#cdn-support) labeled "highly experimental".

### Final Lap with Netlify

The final version of the CDN for CocoaPods/Specs was implemented on [Netlify](https://www.netlify.com), a static site hosting service supporting flexible site generation.   
This solution ticked all the boxes: a generous open-source plan, fast CDN and continuous deployment from GitHub.

Upon each commit, Netlify runs a specialized script that generates a per-shard index for all the pods and versions in the repo. An example of a shard index can be found at https://cdn.cocoapods.org/all_pods_versions_2_2_2.txt. Additionally, an `all_pods.txt` contains a list of all pods. 

The rest of the requests get redirected to GitHub's CDN.

### Usage

Using the CDN for retrieving specs, while "finalized", should still be considered experimental.

To use the CDN source in your `Podfile`, simply add it like so:

```ruby
source 'https://cdn.cocoapods.org/'
```

If you have a source-controlled `Podfile.lock` in your repo, it currently requires a manual update. Otherwise, just delete it.

If you have a CI setup, it is recommended to cache the new repo dir as it is very small and would save even more time.

In the next releases, we are planning to make the CDN source the default master source.


🚀
